SOURCE: Evan Investing — Trading Psychology video
TOPICS: Overtrading, revenge trading, dollar-chasing, FOMO, lockout discipline, one-trade-per-day, detaching from money, red days, execution as a robot
INSTRUMENT: General (not instrument-specific)
DATE INGESTED: 2026-05-30
NOTE: User confirmed "this is all i have on stdv" — StdDev logic remains undocumented from available sources.

---

[Full transcript]

All right. What's up everyone? Um, today is going to be a video on trading psychology. I know a lot of people struggle with it and it is probably the most important I won't say probably. I know for a fact it is the most important thing in your trading that is going to get you somewhere. Okay, so first off, let me start by saying this. If you don't have the attention span to watch this video to the end, you can just click off right now because you're probably never going to make it in trading anyway. If you can't watch maybe a 15 minute video on how to better yourself and how to fix your psychology, then I I I really don't know what to tell you, okay? Watch the video to the end. Stop being a [__] okay? And just sit down for 15 minutes and watch the damn video, okay? Because what I'm about to say will probably help your trading. Don't you want that? You clicked on the video for a reason. you want your trading psychology to be better, don't skip the video. Simple as that. Okay. So, moving forward, you have to identify the issues in your trading. Okay? What is it in my trading that makes me a bad trader? Is it my strategy? Most likely not. Okay? Is it the fact that I'm overtrading? Okay? Is it the fact that I'm chasing money? Is it the fact that I'm FOMOing into trades? Is it the fact that, you know, I'm chasing a certain dollar amount? Think about every single one of the things that you could possibly think of. I guarantee you 99% of them relate to psychology. Okay? That's how important it is. Think about everything you know about trading. They all relate to psychology. Why do you FOMO into trades? Cuz you have a fear of missing out. That's your brain telling you you should get in because the market's dumping or the market's pumping and you want to be a part of it. And you see all the people on social media, oh my gosh, I made $15,000 today on the short. If you didn't catch it, you're a [__]. We need to cut that [__] out. Okay? Straight up. Stop listening to people about that [__] please. um trade as your own person and stop listening to other people trying to flex because I can guarantee you right now half of that [__] isn't even real. Um but aside from that, okay, psychology is the most important thing in trading. Okay, why do you want to chase a certain dollar amount? Because your head is telling you, "Oh, I've seen this person make this amount of money and I think it's possible and I know I can do it. So, I need to prove them wrong or I need to do it myself." All right. Now, at the same time, it is good to be hungry. It is good to, you know, chase your goals, but at the same time, if the charts aren't presenting that setup, it's just not going to happen. You know, if your strategy doesn't align with the charts at the certain time, you know, that really screws you. If you're looking at the chart and you're saying, "Okay, I want to make 10K today." You're looking at a chart and there's no clean setups. What are you going to do? you're going to force a trade and try to make that 10K. Because in your mind, you're telling yourself, "Okay, I need to make 10K today. I need to make that certain amount of money to be satisfied." Trading is not just a [__] game. It's not a [__] video game where you can hop on and be like, "Yeah, I'm just going to do this and do that and then make 10 grand." Really? You guys already know it's not. You guys know this is not a joke. You cannot treat it as a joke. And if you do, you're going to get screwed. And now you're here watching trading psychology videos because you can't stick to your plan. And you're chasing [__] in your head that is not realistic. So, I want you to step back from the trading thing, okay? Or the the money aspect of trading. Take a step back. Please focus on one thing. I have my strategy in place. I know this is a profitable strategy. And if it's not, you should probably change your strategy to something that's profitable, okay? And I mean, hopefully everyone watching this video has a strategy that works, okay? Take that strategy, maybe you can go and back test it or something, or maybe you can watch someone else trade it, right? Find out if it's really profitable. If it is, great. Next step, I want you to go on the charts every morning at 9:30. Look for this exact setup. If you see it, take it. Don't be scared to risk money. Don't be scared of losing. Okay? If you see that exact setup that's a part of your strategy, take the trade. If you lose, get off the charts. If you win, get off the charts. If you get break even, get off the charts. lock yourself out of your accounts. That's literally all you have to do. If you have a strategy that works and you take that that trade that is a part of your strategy over time, it will work. You might not have that 10k day today or you might not have it this week or this month. It'll come eventually with time. Okay? As you get more leverage, you will start to see those days. you'll start to see those numbers. But if you put this in your head and say, "Okay, I want to make 10K today. You're going to get screwed." And you already know that. Okay? I think 99% of the people watching this video, you know what you have to do to fix your psychology. You already know it. But why don't you do it? There could be a multitude of reasons on why you're not doing it. Number one, you want the money, right? I think that's that's the common denominator here. Or two, you have FOMO. Or, you know, there's a million other things. Okay? But it all relates back to psychology. It all relates back to you wanting something in your head and you're not seeing it yet, so you chase it. And how do you chase it? Through overtrading, through overleveraging, through not taking one trade a day. All these little stupid things that you know you shouldn't be doing need to be cut out and you already know it. So, this is completely on you. I'm not going to be there to watch you trade in the morning and beat you if you freaking don't follow your rules. No one's going to do that for you. So, this is all on you. You have to be the deciding factor of this. Straight up, trading is hard and no one ever said it was easy. Okay? Well, I mean, maybe I've said it in a few videos because it it it is easy because you can just [__] follow your rules with a profitable system and be okay, but a lot of you guys like to make it hard when it's really not. But the reason I say trading is hard is because of the psychology game. Okay, trading is easy and hard. You can make it easy, but you can also make it hard. So, you got to pick your pick your poison here. You can make it easy if you follow your [__] plan. It's not hard. You go on the charts with a profitable system. You take one trade a day, maybe two. Okay? If you see two good setups, make sure those setups are a part of your plan. Take the trade and get off the charts. If you don't see the trade, don't trade. Don't force something because you want to make 10K today. It's not going to happen and you're probably going to lose. And then guess what? You go in a spiral. You try to make your money back because you lost on a stupid trade that you know you shouldn't have even taken in the first place. Say you lose $200 on that. You say, "Oh [__] I need to make this back." You go in again on a stupid trade that you know you shouldn't have taken. You lose again. Maybe you win. Who knows? No matter what the outcome is, you're still breaking your rules and you're still [__] your head every single time you do something like that. Take this from someone who's been through the absolute worst of it. Okay? I didn't have anyone to tell me this and it's an honor to be able to make this video and have people watch it and understand and learn from my mistakes. And I guarantee you every profitable trader you will ever talk to in your life will say the exact same thing I'm saying. Get a profitable system. Take one or two trades a day and get off the charts. No reason to be on the charts for more than like 2 to three hours a day. And maybe that's just my system. I know other systems, you know, maybe take less time, but still it's still the principle of it. Okay? And I know I sound like a broken record, but you just need to stick to your plan and not break your rules. Okay? Now, why do we get like this? We need to identify the psychological problems. Okay. Let's say you lose a trade and your problem is overtrading. You have tomorrow. Can you just wait? Why don't you wait? Instead, you're going to tell me you would rather crash out in one singular day and have the risk of blowing all your accounts in one day than simply wait till tomorrow for a better setup and potentially make your money back and more. Why would you ever pick the first choice? You know, you missed the setup on the day, so why try to take another trade? Just wait till tomorrow. All of the [__] that I'm telling you guys, it's really, it sounds really easy, but once you get on the charts, you might fold, but it is on you to not fold. And that it's as simple as that. You can't fold under pressure. Let's say you take a losing trade, okay? You lose $200, right? Get off. You can't go back and overtrade because you get in this mindset of, "Oh man, like I lost today and I know I shouldn't have taken that trade and I saw a different trade earlier and I hesitated on it." Like I said before, you have a system. You need to act on that system when you see it. And if you don't see it, don't take the trade. It's really simple. And if you apply these simple rules to your trading, you won't have psychology issues. And if you don't have psychology issues, you'll be profitable. It all correlates in trading. Every single piece of the puzzle gets put together. But the the head of the operation is is psychology. It's just straight up. I guarantee you 99% of strategies on the market work because everyone's trading the same market. You can look at it a different way, right? Maybe I see a um retracement into OTE. Someone else is viewing that as a level tap or someone else is viewing that as a VWAP tap or someone else is viewing that as a volume imbalance or whatever it is. Everyone is viewing the same market. Everyone has a different strategy. It doesn't matter what your strategy is. But if say let's use me for an example. I enter the trade and I lose. Let's say, okay, I get off. Trader two hops on the charts. He takes the exact same trade as me. Okay, he loses. He smashes his [__] hands on the table and starts whining about how price action was so bad and he starts coping and then he he goes back on his computer and take another trade. Now he's down $400 or $500. Could have just stopped at that point, right? And then you keep going going. Then you're down half your account. You're down $1,000 if you're on a 50k, right? You're down a thousand bucks already. That's half the account in a day. And you're already that deep in the rabbit hole. You think to yourself in the moment, damn, I already [__] blew half the account. I shouldn't have done this. I'm such an idiot, man. I I I need to make it back or I'm just going to blow it. Just eat the loss and walk away in the first place. It's simple, guys. You guys need to stop over complicating it. And if you can just train your brain to be okay with it, which is simple. You know how you train your brain? You do it in real life and your mind will get used to it. Okay. I had a big problem with psychology when I was starting out. What did I do? I identified my problems and I found a solution to them and I applied the solution to my real life. Okay. What was my issue? My issue was overtrading. Whether I won or lost, guess what I did? I went on my broker. I put a um or no, I'm sorry. After I took my first trade, I hit the little button on top that says lock out for the whole day. And then I got used to it. I just got used to it, okay? Whether I lost or I won the trade, it doesn't matter. I click the [__] lock out button and I stop. I wait till tomorrow. Go on with the rest of your day. Enjoy your day. Don't let it [__] ruin your day. I mean, really? You guys know how simple it could be for you? You wake up, you click a few buttons, and you go on about your day. It doesn't matter if you win or lost. You have the next day where you could potentially win and make more money. You could eat your loss. You can make 500. It doesn't matter. You just need to be okay with eating a loss. And you need to train your brain to be okay with that. Because again going back to me, right? I had a huge problem with overtrading and once I trained my brain to stop caring is when I changed my whole trading around. Okay. Now my system is a very high win rate. So I didn't take many losses. But when I did and I was unprofitable, I would take a loss and then keep going and going going going try to chase it when the trade wasn't there. You know what I could have done? Lock out, done for the day, lost a few hundred bucks, I'm off. See you tomorrow. And the next day, come back, see the A+ setup, and boom, take it. Make the win. But no, I sat there and blew my account cuz I I wasn't satisfied. My brain would not let me have a red day. And that's a lot of your guys' problem, okay? You need to be okay with having a red day. It's okay to lose. You're not going to have a 100% win rate in a market that 99% of people can't beat. Okay? If you have a 60% win rate, you're still profitable straight up. So, I think a lot of you guys are just over complicating it. You know, now I've I've trained my brain to just not care at this point, right? I don't even need the lockout feature anymore. I just take my one trade and that's it. Done for the day. Get off. Go enjoy my day. Don't let it ruin my day. Whether it's a win or loss, don't even think about it. Don't go back on your phone later in the day and look at the Trading View chart. Just get off and wait. Wait till tomorrow. Detach your mind from the money. You can't be thinking about all these other people doing way better than you because I promise you they've been in experiences that you have not and they've been trading for probably way longer than you have and they've understood more about the market than you have. So you're you shouldn't be comparing yourself to these people that are doing all this. And I say a lot a big part of why people's psychology is messed up is because of social media. because you're seeing all this stuff that other people are doing from the exact thing you're doing, right? When it's really not. You're just you're all trading the NASDAQ, right? Let's say he's trading a different way than you are, and you're trading a different way than the other person is. And everyone's trading a different, right? But at the end of the day, you're still trading, right? You're all doing the same [__] but one person is just better than the other. Why? They can hop off the charts after a loss and you can't. They can manage their emotions and you can't. They have proper risk management and you don't. And guess what? That all leads back to your brain. Your head telling you that it's not okay to lose because you want to be perfect. You want to have 100% win rate. It's not realistic. Okay. So once you understand that all this [__] is within reach, it's literally right at your fingertips, all you need to do is just stick to a plan. Stick to a plan. Focus on your trading and that's it. I promise you it's that easy. Okay? Stop comparing yourself to other people. Detach detach yourself from the money. Trade with a system that is profitable and execute like a freaking robot. Don't have emotions. Take the trade, hop off next day. Take the trade, hop off next day. Take the trade, hop off next day. So again, it is all up to you whether you really want to make it work. And you say to yourself, I really want this. I really want this. You're not doing the things that it's going to take to get there. So do you really want it or are you just saying that? Because if you really wanted it, you would stick to your system and you stick to your plan just like everyone else that you know reached their goals did. They stuck to a plan. Okay? Um like for example, um some of the people that I taught, I'm not going to sit here and pick names. Some people stuck to their plan and did exactly what I'm telling them to do. I said, "Stick to the plan. Stick to the strategy. Take one trade a day and hop off the charts." No matter what it is, the system is profitable. If you wait and be patient and don't think about the money and check your P&L calendar in a month, you're going to be up. You're going to be green on the month. That's really what matters. It's not about today. It's about overall. Okay? Going back, person A stuck to their plan, did what they're supposed to do. They became profitable, and they had their first 30K month in 6 months. They got their first payout in 3 months. First 30K month in 6 months. Think about how soon that is. And person B, they said they're locked in. They said they're going to do what it takes. They wake up every day right at 9:30. They click buttons. They overtrade. They're chasing the money. They're seeing all the [__] on social media. It's ruining their brain. They're not doing stuff outside of trading. That's going to make them a better person. They're just they're treating it like a joke. You know, you lose a trade, they lose a trade, and they they keep trading and trading and try to make it back and then their account's blown back at square one. Which person do you want to be? That's the choice that is yours. That is completely up to you. Okay. So, I'm going to leave you with that. At the end of the day, it is your choice. That's it. It's your choice. So, if you want to become profitable, stick to your system. You know what you have to do. Take the emotions out of it and trade. Repeat your system. Be a robot. Don't let it get to you. Okay, that's literally it.
