SOURCE: Evan Investing — Fibonacci Retracements breakdown video
TOPICS: FIB settings, fib levels, manipulation leg definition, OTE zone, premium/discount, why fibs work, stop placement, statistics
INSTRUMENT: ES / MES (examples shown)
DATE INGESTED: 2026-05-29

---

What's up everyone? So today I am going to be going over how I use FIBS or Fibonacci retracements in my trading. Um first I'm going to be going over settings and then the levels I use, where to draw them, why they work, and how you can use them in your trading. Okay, so I will be going over these five key points. Um first off, I'm going to be going over the settings. So if you go up here, you will see the four lines, which is the fib retracement. You can favorite this and you can draw it out on your chart. Um, starting off, if you haven't already adjusted the settings, they will probably look a lot different than this right here. But this is the um, fib I use. Okay, I have no background. I just have the levels right here. And I keep it clean and simple. Okay, I think that is another very important thing that a lot of people do not do. Um, they have a bunch of colors on their charts and all this stuff going on. I think keeping your chart as clean as possible can help you. Okay, so moving forward, I'm going to be showing you guys my settings. I have 0, 618, 1, 76, 705, and.5 all in white. Um, I have the lines on um, one opacity, I think, so it's pretty small. I have the background turned off. I have the prices turned off. I just have the levels on here. Font size 12. So, you guys can pause the video and um, change your settings if you please. Um or you can you know change them to whatever color you want. I don't really care. But okay, moving forward we have four levels right here that we will look at. We have 0.5, 618, 705, and 786. Okay, what is this talking about? What am I even looking at? Okay, so I'm going to get my brush tool and I'm going to draw a line. Okay, say we have this. We have a point in the high and a point in the low. Okay, we are looking in this move for a retrace into anywhere past 0.5. Okay, for price to retrace and then move down and go and take that same low. Okay, um that is another thing that I also use in my indicator with initial balance that you guys can also learn about. But um just going to keep it simple this video and just go over the basics of how I use my fib. Okay, so I draw it from the top of the move to the bottom of the move and I look for a retrace back into that point. Um, preferably 618. I use this one the most because it is just the best and it just statistically works the best. Okay, so looking for that retrace and then usually targeting that leg or if there's anything below that then I might look for that too. Um, yeah, you can use 0.5 as well. Um, I typically like to stick to 705 and 618 just because, you know, like I said before, they just work the best, you know. So, let me get rid of this and I will show you guys a real example on the charts. So, this leg for example of um yesterday's move. Oh, wait. Yeah. Right. Yep. This was yesterday's move. Okay. So, we draw from the top of this leg to the bottom of this leg. Okay. Okay, you can also extend these, right? Um, I personally just like extend them like this, you know? So, what do you see here? We have a move down. We create the low. We start to move up. You draw your fib out and boom, we retrace right into here. Also tapping some of our levels right here. We get a good reaction. We move off of it. We retest it 1 2 3 4 five times right off of 618. And then boom, we dump and go and take the low. That is an A+ setup right there. Okay, that is literally exactly what I just explained. Okay. Um, we'll go into another example here. Um, we can go right here. You can use them on literally any price leg that manipulates us down. I'll also be going over where to draw them as well. Um, like this right here. We had a push up. We manipulated highs. We moved down after that and created a new leg of price. What do you do? You draw your fib from the top of the range to the bottom. Okay. Look what happened here. Market open. We chopped up. We took these lows. We come up. We retrace into 618 and 705. Boom. Go and take the low. Now, if you were taking this trade, I would probably recommend targeting maybe this low or this low or something like that. So, you could um you know get some more value out of that because it is market open. There's a lot more volume to be made in this day. Okay, we'll go on bar replay as well. I want to show you guys another thing. Um, we'll go right here, right before 9:30. So, my indicator showed that once 9:30 opened, we have an 86% chance of tapping this level, 58% chance of tapping this level, and a 65% chance of taking previous day low. Okay, right down here. Now, we're going to turn on bar replay and see what happens in this day. Okay, I'm going to get rid of my fib for a second. Price comes down, take that level, we create a new price leg. Okay, price ticked out these lows. This is the leg of manipulation that I will be talking about. Boom. Draw the fib. You could literally just set a limit order. Um, even on 618, you could put your stops maybe above this high to be safe and then target something like this. Boom. 2.5R. Simple, easy. Tagged in right there. Dumps. Okay, perfect. We retrace right into this. Moving forward, we retest these levels again. We move lower. Nothing really happens here besides this. Look, we have a little price leg in here. You can also draw this out. Initial balance also gets formed in there. Um, we move right up to 705, right? Okay. 618 got tapped multiple times. We tap 705 as well and boom, we react off it multiple times. We go and take the low again. If you if you got tagged in at 705, you could have maybe put your stops maybe I like to do 30 points when I'm trading New York. Target the low at initial balance because there was an 83% chance that this would get tagged and boom, 2.9R. Simple and easy. Okay, you don't need to wait for any other confluences. You could just set a limit on that order and it will fill you in at the level. You put your stops up there. You put your TP down here and you wait. Okay, moving forward. Another stat we have here. Boom. Gets taken right off that. You could have held this and targeted previous day low. Okay, I'm going to show you guys some more examples of this because it it works. Okay, any leg we'll go back to. Boom. Low high retraces 7 70 7:05. It actually tapped 786. Boom. Get tagged in. Target the lows. Data lows right there gets tapped. Boom. Easy. Okay. Any sort of leg that manipulates price. So, say we have these highs here. News pushes us up. We get um a sweep of these highs and then we actually manipulate them at market open. As you can see right here, market open moves us higher and we instantly get a push down. Boom. We dump. We make a leg, we retrace into that leg, rebalance price, and then boom, we dump towards those lows. Okay, it really doesn't get more simple than that. I mean, we'll look on a higher time frame as well. We are looking for the manipulation leg or what does that mean? I will type it out for you guys. Okay, we're going to go here. Manipulation leg. What does this mean? the leg of price that pushes us in the direction of desire. Okay, this is what it is. You guys should probably look into this. Okay, take a screenshot. Do whatever you want with it. Okay, manipulation leg. What are we looking for? the leg of price that pushes us in the direction of desire or the desired direction. I don't know why I didn't just say that. There we go. In the desired direction. Okay. So, like that example before, we have something like this. Let's draw our fib. We'll go in here with the brush tool. Boom. We make a high. We make a low. Okay. We manipulate highs. Boom. We come down. We form a new leg. This is our manipulation leg. We mark out the top, the bottom. Boom. We look for a retrace and then we look for expansion lower. Very simple. Very, very simple. There's nothing else to it, guys. It's literally just that simple. Okay. Go back and look at this stuff in real time. It happens. It works. It's beautiful. Okay. Um, let's look at this. So, we have um you can do any time frame really. Okay, technically since we were in this chop, this low would be the leg of manipulation that pushes higher. Okay, boom. We come up, we push down overnight, we retrace into here, we make lows in London session, we come up from those lows, market opens, we manipulate the lows. Boom. What are we looking for this day? I was looking um to go higher because I had all these stats here. Um, we'll replay it. Market opens. Boom. We take out the lows and we instantly tap into 705 of this range. After taking those lows, what happens after that? We expand to these levels right here. Boom. Tap them. Easy. Let's look at some more examples on a higher time frame. You can look at them on any time frame. They work on literally every time frame. Um, you can see What happens here? I know this is a little more hard to see because it is on a 15-minute time frame, but what do we have here? We are in a downtrend. We retrace. We respect the highs. We move lower. Okay? We chop up overnight. And as soon as we get the manipulation leg that pushes us, pushes us out of this range. What do we do with this? We take our fib. We draw it from the high right here. Not this candle. The high of the move to the low right here. Boom. We extend it. Look at that. I'm going to put this right here for you guys to watch. Okay. We have very low statistics of price coming back up to this point. Boom. 618 705 highs right here before market open. We're chopping. We're not taking the low. Actually, we did take the low. But actually, that was wrong. I did that wrong. We're going to draw it from here. Okay, cuz that was our new low. What happens? We come up. We rebalance this leg of price right into 705. Top tick. Not actually a top tick, but still 30 point stop. This was a very volatile day, so you probably could have done a little more, maybe 40 points. >> And then you target the low. I actually took this trade. I actually got in at 618, so it was about 240 points, but that's still a lot. Um, get in right there. Boom. >> Goes and takes a low. I don't even need to say anything. All right, let's go back to another day. Okay, you can literally look at this on any time frame. You can look at this in any session. You can look at this in any single form of price movement or price leg that manipulates us higher. We're in a downtrend. We change direction. We go up. Draw it from the bottom. Draw it to the top. 705. Boom. bottom tick takes the high. Rebalances price up here. Easy. Let's go back to another example. Um, this day was a super news-filled day, but we can still see this. We are in an uptrend overnight. Okay, we make a high, we make a low. What is this? This is a leg of price that pushes us in the opposite direction. What did I say before? We're looking for a manipulation leg. Okay, high low. This was pre-market, but you still could have taken it. Okay, 705 right here. 618 gets respected as well. Wait, crap. Wrong tool. 705. Or even if you took it off 618, you could have still banked. Okay, this would have been a super loose stop. Um 40 points right above the high. If you targeting 618 right there, boom, 39 point stop. I would have probably targeted these lows right here or something like that. Um or probably right here because this was Asia session open lows. Boom. Look at that. Super simple, super easy. Boom. retrace into there. Market opens right right there. Bang. Anytime, any session, anywhere, any single form of manipulation, we will retrace into that price leg and and manipulate. Okay? Any single time. It doesn't matter. It can be this whole price leg. Boom. Top bottom. We move up. Market opens. We manipulate. 705. Once again, top ticks the whole move. Boom. 40 point stop. Very volatile. Targeting the low. 280 points for a 6.93R. If you're not understanding this and you're not using this in your trading, this is where you go wrong. I mean, this is this is obviously how the market moves. And we can see moving higher even. We obviously did not play out this whole leg. We did not take this high. But look, boom, bottom top right here, we retrace a little lower than 705. But still, boom. This would not have played out. Once again, 40 point stop. You would still be in even if you targeted these highs right here. 5.1R. Boom. Overnight. I mean, it it just it really just doesn't get more simple than that. We make a leg that moves us in a certain direction. We retrace into it and we look to continue into that direction. It's a continuation. Okay. Now, I'm going to be going back to this. Okay. I went over the settings. I went over the levels. I went over where to draw them. Why do they work? Okay. This is exactly why they work. So, we can draw this for example. Okay. I will do a drawing right here. And also I already went over why they why how you can use them in your trading, but I'll deep dive deeper into that as well. So we make a high, we make a low. Okay, what do sellers want to see in this position? They want to see a price point to where it makes sense for them to sell. Okay, so we're if we're in this range, there's not enough liquidity generated for us to move lower. Okay, because if a market just did this the whole day, everyone would be rich, right? There would be no retracements. There would be no no moves up. there would be nothing. There would be no manipulation. And what does manipulation do? Stops out the opposite direction. So this zone right here, right, let's fill in this zone right here. This zone in here above 0.5 of a range is likely for sellers to step in. It just makes sense, right? They want to buy in a discounted range. Okay? Preferably 618. Boom. We come up in here. We take the low. Okay? I just showed you guys probably 10 examples of why it works and how you can use them in real time. You draw out the top to the bottom of the move in a short position or the bottom to the top in a long position. You wait for a retrace back into there. Any other confluence you have on the trade. I mean, I wouldn't necessarily just top tick a trade like this on a high time frame based off of a fib, but you know, other confluences. All right. I was really debating on taking the short right here based off of these two levels. They kept getting rejected and we were obviously at the um right here. >> Wait, hold on. Up here. 618. Boom. Tap 618. Okay. Boom. 30 point stop. Boom. Target the low 155 points. It is Asia session. I don't really like to trade Asia session. I usually trade New York because that is when the cleanest manipulation happens. But um yeah, so I mean it's just pretty it's pretty simple. You guys can use them with other confluences. Um for me personally, I've been using them with my indicator and they've been cooking. I mean I have not lost yet. I have I have not lost a trade yet. Okay. Um I started using my indicator about two weeks ago. Obviously, like I said, I haven't lost with it. So, it's been really working for me and I've been using FIBS in pretty much every single one of my trades to determine um direction. I draw out my bias. I draw out what I want to see for the day. Um, a lot of other things that go into it. But then again, I wait for the manipulation leg to get formed. I look in that direction to see if we're getting a retrace back into that zone. And then I look for manipulation off of that. Okay? Super simple, guys. It's it's not rocket science. It's not hard to understand. you're just waiting for a retrace into that zone and you're looking for some other confluences to tell you that you want to um look for a maybe short or long in that position. Okay. All right. That'll wrap up the video for today. I just wanted to give a brief explanation on how I personally use FIBS in my trading. Um, if you guys want access to the indicator I have on my screen right here and you want access to live trading as well, it all comes together in my premium Discord. You guys can access that through the link in this video right here is also linked through my Instagram and Tik Tok as well. So, if you want, you guys can check it out. I'm doing a 7-day free trial for you guys to check it out and see how you like it. Um, but yeah, that'll wrap it up for today.
